
                             The pretty Command

   Usage

   pretty [options] <class_name> ...

   Command pretty is the SmartEiffel pretty printer for Eiffel source
   files. The class_name argument can be a classic Eiffel class name as
   for example "INTEGER" or the name of some file as for example
   "integer.e". The class file to be treated by pretty is always searched
   in the current working directory.
   One can specify more than one class name (or more than one file name)
   at a time in order to apply pretty on many files. All the
   corresponding files are reprinted in a pretty way.

   There are four modes of pretty printing -zen, -default, -end and
   -parano mode. Only one mode can be selected and mode -default is the
   default mode.

   Options for Pretty Printing

   -help:
          Display a brief summary of the command-line syntax and a
          complete list of pretty options.
   -version:
          Show the number of the version of SmartEiffel you're using.
   -zen:
          The less you can print (i.e. very compact output). No end mark
          comment for routines. No end comments for statements (if,
          inspect, debug, ...).
   -default:
          The default mode. This is close to what we are using for our
          library.
   -end:
          Same printing as for previous mode but also print end mark
          comments for all routines.
   -parano:
          Same printing as for previous mode but also print end mark
          comments for all statements (if, inspect, debug, ...).
   -no_style_warning:
          Suppress output for warning messages related to non respect of
          standard Eiffel style guidelines (for example ItEm will not
          trigger a warning).
   -no_warning:
          Suppress output for all warning messages (error messages are
          still printed).

   Security and BackUp File

   For the security of sources files, a backup file is created before
   writing the new file (system or command pretty may crash during
   printing of the new file). The backup file name is "foo.bak" when
   source file name is "foo.e". Backup file is written in the same
   directory as source file.
   If an old backup file already exists before pretty printing, command
   pretty exit with an error message. To be sure that the pretty printing
   is well done, the output file is parsed again.
   Even if second parsing gives no errors, backup file is NOT removed.
   Thus you can recompile your Eiffel code to check new file before
   removing backup file by yourself.

                                   [Line]
             Copyright © Dominique COLNET and Suzanne COLLIN -
                         [1]<SmartEiffel@loria.fr>
                Last modified: Tue Feb 11 12:16:31 CET 2003
                                      

References

   1. mailto:SmartEiffel@loria.fr
